So just to wrap up this little section,
you'll remember that my first big
takeaway from those two consulting
engagements I described earlier,
is that there's still a lot of confusion
about design systems out there.
One of the reasons that I tried
to develop this is because I
want this model taken all together to
offer some clarity around the pieces and
parts that make up a system.
Most importantly, I hope it gives you
all an opportunity to think about and
talk about how you define design
systems inside your organization.
Frankly, I don't really care much if
you choose to use my model or not,
what's important is that you
define it in your context.
If you have got people all over
the organization that have different ideas
about this thing, you're gonna have
a really hard time wrangling them together
to make something good.
So, I would encourage you to spend
some time to actually develop your
own definition,
develop your own language around this.
I know at least in my consulting
practice at Sparkbox,
we're doubling down on the education
that we're doing as part of that.
It's just,
we cannot make assumptions that everybody
understands these things in the same way.
So that's takeaway one.
Takeaway number two,
you'll remember was that,
teams aren't realizing the full benefits
of a systematic design practice.
So, when you think about
benefits of design systems,
there's always two concepts
that kind of rise to the top.
The first is this idea of consistency or
cohesion.
And, so
let's just talk really quickly about this.
I think the layers, the foundations,
the tokens, the core systems,
the components, they can give
us some level of consistency.
So simply having components for folks to
use, allows those individuals to say that,
The buttons in my product
all look the same, right?
So there's a level of consistency or
cohesion at that individual level.
And having foundations, tokens in core
systems, those fundamental layers will
allow your departments, like a larger
part of the organization, to say,
All the digital products we offer look and
feel the same.
So this is like another level of cohesion
or consistency that you can achieve.
And these are admirable kinds of
consistency, these are the things that I
think most people are trying
to achieve with their systems.
But I think there's actually
a deeper level of consistency
that we can reach that only happens when
we are rooted in the established brand.
And in that case,
the culture of the organization is that,
every interaction a customer has
with us aligns with our brand.
This connects the work that you're doing
on a digital interface with the bigger
mission and vision of your company.
It's different than consistency at
the individual and department level,
because it speaks to interactions with
your company's audience way beyond just
the digital work that you do.
And that's why I think it's cultural, it's
a recognition that you're all on the same
team, the product folks, the marketing
people, the IT, your customer service,
logistics, even your salespeople,
[LAUGH] all on the same team, right?
And this is a really healthy perspective
I think for us to get back to.
I'm not saying that having a design system
is gonna give you this automatically, but
design systems that start rooted in
the brand and build out are gonna at least
have a shot at achieving this
kind of cultural consistency.
So, the other main benefit that folks
always talk about is efficiency, right?
How many of you would say design system,
you're doing it cuz you need that
efficiency, you wanna be faster, right?
This is a common thing.
And, I think it's the parts of each of
these layers that really give that to us.
The assets will enable an individual to
design or build a feature faster, right?
I have the things I need to be
able to do the work I wanna do.
And I think the processes allow us to work
more efficiently with each other, right?
That's gonna help us get to market faster.
We're defining how we work as individuals,
so we don't have to guess, right?
We know the process,
we understand how that works.
And these, I think,
are the primary kinds of efficiency that
most organizations are thinking about.
But I think the documentation is actually
where we define the language that we use,
to talk about the problems we're solving.
And when you have all three of
these parts for each layer,
you're giving your organization a shot
at this cultural level of efficiency,
which is that, we understand each other.
I know saying that,
We understand each other, seems so simple.
[LAUGH] On the surface, it definitely
feels that way, but it's not.
I can tell you from my own experience,
I've been in meetings where we're just
talking about some future work,
everybody thinks they're on the same page,
we all go off to do our own things,
and we come back a week or
a month later to review, and
we have all gone in different directions.
[LAUGH] And that is a massive source of
inefficiency inside every organization.
And it's one that,
I don't think we track that,
we don't pay attention to that.
But that's simply miscommunication, that
happens because we haven't established
a language for communicating with each
other about the problems we're solving.
That kind of miscommunication
is widespread, and
it creates the most
damaging inefficiencies.
I've talked with folks who've experienced
this, it's frustrating for the employees,
it creates animosity between departments.
And at the root,
it's simply because we haven't taken
the time to document the language we use.
Now, again, designed systems are not gonna
guarantee that you reach this level of
efficiency, but, when they're built right,
they at least give you a shot at better
understanding each other, and
that's where real efficiency comes from.
So, in addition to providing some
clarity about what systems are,
[LAUGH] I hope this model makes it clear
why it's important that we do this work.
And I hope these ideas will help you
realize a little bit more meaningful
efficiency and more authentic
consistency in your systems work.